

This model is the 3-step model from the article:  
**Onset dynamics of type A botulinum neurotoxin-induced paralysis.**   
Lebeda FJ, Adler M, Erickson K, Chushak Y _J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn_ 2008
Jun; 35(3): 251-67 [18551355](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18551355) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Experimental studies have demonstrated that botulinum neurotoxin serotype A
(BoNT/A) causes flaccid paralysis by a multi-step mechanism. Following its
binding to specific receptors at peripheral cholinergic nerve endings, BoNT/A
is internalized by receptor-mediated endocytosis. Subsequently its zinc-
dependent catalytic domain translocates into the neuroplasm where it cleaves a
vesicle-docking protein, SNAP-25, to block neurally evoked cholinergic
neurotransmission. We tested the hypothesis that mathematical models having a
minimal number of reactions and reactants can simulate published data
concerning the onset of paralysis of skeletal muscles induced by BoNT/A at the
isolated rat neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and in other systems. Experimental
data from several laboratories were simulated with two different models that
were represented by sets of coupled, first-order differential equations. In
this study, the 3-step sequential model developed by Simpson (J Pharmacol Exp
Ther 212:16-21,1980) was used to estimate upper limits of the times during
which anti-toxins and other impermeable inhibitors of BoNT/A can exert an
effect. The experimentally determined binding reaction rate was verified to be
consistent with published estimates for the rate constants for BoNT/A binding
to and dissociating from its receptors. Because this 3-step model was not
designed to reproduce temporal changes in paralysis with different toxin
concentrations, a new BoNT/A species and rate (k(S)) were added at the
beginning of the reaction sequence to create a 4-step scheme. This unbound
initial species is transformed at a rate determined by k(S) to a free species
that is capable of binding. By systematically adjusting the values of k(S),
the 4-step model simulated the rapid decline in NMJ function (k(S) >or= 0.01),
the less rapid onset of paralysis in mice following i.m. injections (k (S) =
0.001), and the slow onset of the therapeutic effects of BoNT/A (k(S) < 0.001)
in man. This minimal modeling approach was not only verified by simulating
experimental results, it helped to quantitatively define the time available
for an inhibitor to have some effect (t(inhib)) and the relation between this
time and the rate of paralysis onset. The 4-step model predicted that as the
rate of paralysis becomes slower, the estimated upper limits of (t(inhib)) for
impermeable inhibitors become longer. More generally, this modeling approach
may be useful in studying the kinetics of other toxins or viruses that invade
host cells by similar mechanisms, e.g., receptor-mediated endocytosis.

This model is the reduced form of the model developed my Simpson 1980; PMID:
[6243359](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6243359) , i.e., it omits three
unknown parameters that represents the binding sites for each species of the
toxin.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2010 The BioModels Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html) .  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le NovÃ¨re N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M. (2006) BioModels Database: A Free,
Centralized Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of
Biochemical and Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://ww
w.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)

